1.5 Anti-Vibe-Coding Discipline — Required for Every Edit in This Pass

This section turns "no vibe coding" from a slogan into a procedure you actually
follow on every single change in Section 2. Read it once now; apply it on every edit.

1.5.1 The Change-Log Requirement

For every fix you make in Section 2, write a short entry — in your own working
notes, a CHANGES.md in the repo, or your PR description — using this exact
structure before you consider the fix done:

FILE:      <exact path>
FUNCTION:  <exact function/component name>
BEFORE:    <what it actually did, confirmed by reading the code — quote the
            specific line(s) that prove it, not a paraphrase from memory>
WHY FAKE:  <which specific bullet from Section 1.5.2 below applies, and why —
            not "seemed off">
FIX:       <the specific change made>
VERIFIED:  <the exact command run + the exact relevant output, or for UI-only
            changes, the exact steps taken and what was observed>

If you cannot honestly fill in BEFORE with a quoted line from the actual file,
you have not read the file closely enough yet — stop and read it before editing.
If you cannot fill in VERIFIED with a real command output, the fix is not done,
regardless of whether the code "looks right."

This log is also what you hand to a technical evaluator if asked "how do I know
this isn't just AI-generated code that was never actually checked?" — it is your
evidence trail.

1.5.2 Concrete Vibe-Coding Anti-Patterns to Watch Yourself For

These are the specific failure modes that produce code which compiles, renders,
and demos fine, but is not actually correct. Catch yourself doing any of these
mid-edit and stop.


Pattern-matching instead of understanding. Writing try/except: pass around
a call because that's what similar code nearby does, without understanding what
exception could actually be raised or whether silently swallowing it is correct
here. (It usually isn't — see 1.5.3.)
Plausible-sounding field names. Writing resume.parsed_skills in a frontend
type or backend serializer because it sounds like it should exist, without
grep-checking the actual model/migration to confirm the field is really called
that.
Copy-adjust-pray. Taking a working function from Feature A, pasting it for
Feature B, changing the obvious variable names, and assuming the rest still
applies — without checking whether Feature B's data shape, auth requirements,
or edge cases actually match Feature A's.
Test-shaped, not behavior-shaped, fixes. Adjusting code until the specific
curl command in the verification step returns 200, without considering whether
the underlying feature is now actually correct for inputs the verification
command didn't happen to test.
Confidence inflation in comments. Writing # This handles all edge cases
or # Fully tested above code that was not, in fact, tested against edge
cases — comments asserting correctness are not a substitute for verification
and should never be added unless the verification was actually run.
Silent scope creep. Starting to fix one fake feature and, mid-edit, also
"cleaning up" unrelated code nearby because it looked improvable. This violates
the minimum-diff principle (Rule 2) and makes the change log dishonest, because
now the diff contains untested, unverified changes mixed in with verified ones.
Trusting the AI model's first output as ground truth. When wiring an AI
service node (resume analyzer, skill gap, etc.), the first JSON response that
parses without error is not automatically a correct response — confirm the
actual field values make sense for the actual input before treating the
integration as done.


1.5.3 Specific Rule: Never Silently Swallow Exceptions

A repeated vibe-coding tell across this codebase type is a bare except: pass
or except Exception: return None added to make an error disappear from the
console rather than to handle it correctly. Audit every exception handler touched
in this pass against this rule:

python# WRONG — vibe-coded "fix" that hides the real problem
try:
    result = call_ai_service(payload)
except Exception:
    pass   # silently continues with no result — feature now looks "fixed"
           # because it no longer crashes, but it also does nothing

# RIGHT — the failure is real, so it is surfaced as a real failure state
try:
    result = call_ai_service(payload)
except httpx.TimeoutException:
    job.status = "failed"
    job.error = "AI service timed out. Try again."
    job.save(update_fields=["status", "error"])
    return
except httpx.HTTPStatusError as e:
    job.status = "failed"
    job.error = GEMINI_ERROR_MESSAGES.get(e.response.status_code, "Processing failed.")
    job.save(update_fields=["status", "error"])
    return

The only acceptable bare except blocks in this codebase are the ones already
explicitly justified in this prompt (e.g. best-effort Cloudinary cleanup in
2.2.1, where a failed delete should not block account deletion) — and those are
commented with the specific reason, not used as a generic catch-all.